---
title: Student Leadership Development
permalink: /signature-programme-and-events/Learning-for-Life-Programmes/student-leadership-development/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Learning for Life Programmes
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>Head of Department</h3><p>Mdm Shanthi Govindasamy</p><h3>Subject Head - Student Leadership &amp; VIA</h3><p>Ms Nur Diana Binte Abd Rahman</p><h3>Student Leadership Development</h3><p>Aligned with our vision,&nbsp;‘Every Child a Steadfast Leader’&nbsp;and our philosophy that&nbsp;“Everyone can learn, love and&nbsp;lead’, we strive towards inculcating the school core values (Ambition,&nbsp;Self-discipline,&nbsp;Perseverance,&nbsp;Integrity,&nbsp;Respect,&nbsp;Empathy) through&nbsp;student leadership&nbsp;development and&nbsp;community service.</p><p>Since 2017, Princess Elizabeth Primary School aims to provide every child an opportunity within each year to develop his/her leadership skills to be a steadfast leader with a heart of service to impact self, school or community as part of our Learning for Life (LLP) Programme.</p><p>The three broad dimensions of leadership, namely self, team and thought, are calibrated in our school programmes to ensure the holistic development of each student. On top of that, our approach to leadership focuses on cultivation of values and positive dispositions in students.</p><p>As such, student leaders are provided are developed through a segmented training approach to cater to the needs and expectations of students across the levels. It also seeks to ensure a progressive approach to the development of social-emotional competencies among the students. Eventually, the specially designed programmes provide student leaders with opportunities to extend their learning and apply what they have learnt in the school community, local community and global community.</p><h3>Student Leadership Development Framework - Values</h3><p>At the centre of the Student Leadership Framework is the school’s core values,&nbsp;ASPIRE, namely&nbsp;<strong>A</strong>mbition,&nbsp;<strong>S</strong>elf-Discipline,&nbsp;<strong>P</strong>erseverance,&nbsp;<strong>I</strong>ntegrity,&nbsp;<strong>R</strong>espect and&nbsp;<strong>E</strong>mpathy.</p><p>These core values serve as a compass for every student in the school, especially for our student leaders who use them as guiding principles in the leadership endeavours.</p><p>&lt;&lt; SLD_1 pic here&gt;&gt;</p><h3>Student Leadership Development Framework - Approaches</h3><p>Three main approaches are adopted by the school in our student leadership development. They are Executive Functioning Skills, Servant Leadership and Inclusive Design.</p><p>Developing students’ executive functioning skills also develops students’ self-leadership and Everyday Leadership skills. These two are of utmost importance as students strive towards improvement to be the best version of themselves.</p><p>‘Serving is leading’ is Servant Leadership’s underlying philosophy. It involves a set of practices that enriches the lives of individuals, and ultimately creates a more just and caring world. Our student leaders serve to lead and lead to serve others around them.</p><p>Inclusive design encourages students to empathize with others while helping them develop a growth mindset and important problem solving and thinking skills. More than a product-based outcome, it is also an ongoing reflective process for the student leaders.</p><h3>Student Leadership Development Framework - Outcomes</h3><p>&lt;&lt; SLD_2 pic here&gt;&gt;</p><p>There are opportunities for all PEPS students to lead depending on their readiness levels. Through these opportunities, the students make positive and valuable impacts on themselves, the school and/or the community.</p><p>Our students’ community and global awareness is developed through their leadership roles and designated school leadership programs. This is part of equipping students with emerging 21st century competencies.</p><p>&lt;&lt; SLD_3 pic here &gt;&gt;</p><h3>Student Leadership Investiture 2023</h3><p><strong>Tier 3 &amp; 4: Leadership Roles at School Level (Prefects &amp; CCA Leaders)</strong></p><p>&lt;&lt; SLD_4 to 7 pic here &gt;&gt;</p><p></p><p></p>